---
title: DRExChange 2016
date: 2013-04-24 12:00:00 Z
categories:
- events
layout: events
display_date: March 23, 2016
location: Hofstra University
---

March 23rd, 2016

Held each spring, DRExChange is Hofstra&rsquo;s annual digital scholarship conference, devoted to exploring areas of research, development, and pedagogy of mutual interest among regional, national, and international digital communities. It is sponsored by Hofstra&rsquo;s DRC Forum.
Our inaugural DREx gathering, on 23 March 2016, begins with Hofstra&rsquo;s Distinguished Faculty Lecture, titled &ldquo;Hofstra&rsquo;s Digital Research Center (DRC): Tools for Building Scholarship in the Humanities,&rdquo; delivered by DRC Director and Professor Emeritus of English John Bryant, Associate Professor of English Adam Sills, and Professor of Law Vern Walker.
After luncheon at the University Club, DRC Associates and guests are invited to attend our DREx Symposium: Digital Scholarship and Affiliation in New York, with featured speakers from the New York City region: Deena Engel (NYU), Matthew Gold (CUNY), Alexander Gil Fuentes (Columbia), Elyse Graham (Stony Brook), David Hoover (NYU), Kimon Keramidas (NYU), Marion Thain (NYU), Ben Vershbow (NYPL Digital Lab), and Jennifer Vinopal (NYU).
Please join us at the following venues and times:

- <strong>11:15am-12:40pm.</strong> (Guthart Cultural Center Theater)<br />
Distinguished Faculty Lecture.

- <strong>1pm.</strong> (University Club)
Luncheon.

- <strong>2-4pm.</strong> (University Club)<br />
Symposium: Digital Scholarship and Affiliation in New York
