---
layout: post
title: MEL
categories: projects
tags: []
author: John Bryant
image: /images/mel.png
published: true
feature: true
project_url: http://mel.hofstra.edu/
lead_person: "1"
people:
  - "1"
---

The Melville Electronic Library (MEL) is a born-digital critical archive featuring interlinked primary and secondary resources for the study of American novelist and poet Herman Melville (1819-1891).  An NEH-funded We the People project, MEL will serve as the principal online center for Melville editing, research, and pedagogy.

<!--more-->

The "textual core" of MEL's database will include all versions of Melville's published and unpublished works, in manuscript and print, to be edited in compliance with the protocols of fluid-text editing and MLA and ADE guidelines for scholarly editions.  Aside from its textual core, the various "rooms" in this digital library's interface will contain materials related to Melville's life and travels, his book and print collections, sources for his writings, and links to primary and secondary bibliography.  In addition to Melville's works, MEL will include a room devoted to adaptations of Melville and the continuing presence of Melville in world culture.  It will also provide finding aids for these materials and links to critical works and scholarly tools.

To generate and display MEL's scholarly edition, we have developed [TextLab](http://mel.hofstra.edu/textlab.html), a digital tool that enables editors to transcribe manuscripts, compare print editions, track revisions in manuscript and in print, and compose innovative annotations of revision sequences and narratives.  Currently in development is MEL's workspace, Melville ReMix, which will allow users to annotate MEL texts and link them to source texts, external texts, and adaptations, as well as to various visual images, including art works referenced in Melville's writing and his personal art print collection of over 400 items.  As a digital research center, MEL will add new scholarship by encouraging user projects such as Melville's Geographical Imagination, which will use Hofstra DRC's mapping tool, Itinerary, to link MEL texts and images to annotatable and sequential points on layerings of historical and contemporary maps.